## ExPaNDS meeting for task 3.4 & 3.5
Wednesday 13 January 2022

## Agenda
**Task 3.4:**
- Report on KPI Assessment meeting
- Next steps to help facilities on ExPaNDS roadmap

**Task 3.5:**
- Report on KeyCloak workshop participation
- Next steps: Fix a date, Help needed with the requirements

## Discussion & Decisions

### For Task 3.4

Rolf presented the most common issues gathered from the KPI Assessment survey and online meeting. We discussed about activities we could do to help ExPaNDS partners to tackle these issues. A presentation of these issues can be found in this folder.

**Decisions:**

In total there will be 3 workshops for exchanging ideas and knowlege. Below are planned activities to tackle each issue. 
- Regarding standard data formats: We could gather together a list of projects working on stardard data format so that the ExPaNDS partners could know where they might get help this issue.
- Regarding decision on metadata catalogue: We could organize a workshop where we present different solutions and highlight the weaknesses and strength of each solution. 
- Reagarding PID issuing: We could organize workshop where we can exchange experiences and concept, invite external partners (B2Find), we could also make use of the PID workshop in WP 2 that takes place later this years.
- Regarding AAI ID management integration: Umbrella ID integration with KeyCloak Workshop is already planned for this issue.

### For Task 3.5
Marta made a report on Umbrella ID & KeyCloak workshop preparation. Information about this workshop can be found [here](https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/blob/master/WP3/WP3.4-3.5/UmbrellaIDWorkshop/requirements.md). We also discussed about the format of the workshop and when it should take place.

**Decisions:**

- The format/agenda of the workshop will be similar to workshop organized for PANOSC with an extra session about integrating a service to KeyCloak.
- Date of the workshop should be on the first haft of Mars. Marta volunteered to send out Doodle to WP 3.

## Next Steps

### For Task 3.4

- Organize other workshops

### For Task 3.5

- Organize the workshop
- Set up Doodle

## Next meeting on 9th February 2022 at 15:00.
