## ExPaNDS meeting for task 3.4 & 3.5
Wednesday 16 March 2022

## Agenda
**Task 3.4:**
- Discuss what needs to prepare for workshop on Different Metadata Catalogues.

**Task 3.5:**
- Final review of KeyCloak-UmbrellaID Workshop.

## Discussion & Decisions

### For Task 3.4

The result from the doodle shows that the 4th April is the most appropriate date for metadata catalogues workshop. We also disscused about who will present the different metadata catalogues and how to compare the differences between them. The presenters of the workshop will have a meeting a week before to disscuse the differences. 

#### Decision:

* A preparatory meeting for presenters of the different metadata catalogues will be on 21th March 2022.   
* Tentative presenters Carlo, Rolf and/or Alejandra.
* The workshop is planned on the 4th April 2022 between 13 - 16 (tentative time).
* Rolf volunteered to contact Kat Roarty to set up the event.


### For Task 3.5

The date for the workshop is getting close but we have not sent out the invitation yet and also have not got the indico link with agenda. In this meeting we disscused on the last actions we need to do for the workshop. Marta volunteered to send out the invitation and Carlo volunteered to contact Björn regarding the final agenda, the possibility to record the workshop and if we can set up the indico event so that participants can register to the event and gets the zoom link.

#### Decision:

* Marta volunteered to send out the invitation for the workshop.
* Carlo volunteered to contact Björn (PSI) regarding the last things on workshop preparation.
* Rolf volunteered to be moderator of the workshop if needed.

## Next Steps

### For Task 3.4

- Set up a agenda
- Send out the invitation

### For Task 3.5

- Send out details about the agenda and registration.

## Next meeting on 4th May 2022 at 15:00.
- Collecting the outcomes from the two workshops.