ExPANDs kick-off meeting for task 3.4 & 3.5  
Wednesday 29 September 2021

Task descriptions
- Task 3.4: Coordinate the integration of metadata catalogues to manage the data lifecycle at EU national Photon and Neutron RIs 
Lead partner: HZB, Contributors: ALBA, DESY DLS, Elettra, HZDR, MaxIV, PSI, Solei, UKRI 
Based on the roadmap defined in task 3.1 the national sites will deploy the developed standards and processes. The WP will help to coordinate these activities by providing best practices and cross-site support. Technical and user interface related information will be documented and provided as input for WP5 to facilitate training. The coordination process will be continued until the end of the project.  

- Task 3.5: Integrate metadata catalogue services into EOSC 
Lead partner: MAX IV, Contributors: Elettra, HZB, PSI 
The different metadata catalogues will be integrated into the PaNOSC federated metadata catalogue and provided as a service on EOSC-hub. Access to metadata catalogues will be facilitated by Umbrella-ID (federated AAI services for Photon and Neutron RIs).

Milestones
- M 3.1 Metadata catalogue release (Month 24) [Done]
- M 3.2 PANOSC metadata catalogue as EOSC service (Month 30)
Deliverables
- D 3.3 Demonstrate ICAT & SCICAT released with compatible APIs (DEM, Month 30)
- D 3.4 Material to support training as input for WP 5 & WP 6 (R, Month 31)

Task interpretation
For D 3.3 Demonstration
- SciCat & ICAT should be able to serve the search API
- There will be at least two sites one using ICAT & one using SciCat connect to the federated search API for demonstration purpose.
- For ICAT Pullinger Stuart (STFC, RALSC, ISIS) could volunteer since they have a lot of open data.
- DESY uses something different than ICAT & SciCat but it will not be included in the deliverable.
- Ask facilities to volunteer when it is time to prepare for the demonstration.

For D 3.4 Training material
- Support all facilities where needed so that they could achieve the KPI targets. 
- Make a survey on facilities status.
- Ask facilities about their road blockers.
- Identify the kind of inputs that WP5 & WP 6 need? 

For Task 3.5 
- Register PANOSC metadata catalogue as EOSC service.
- Unclear if Umbrella ID should be supported or not. Need to investigate if authentication is possible in the federated search API.
- Questions for WP 3:
  What is the status of the PANOSC federated metadata catalogue?
  Does/Will PANOSC search API support authentication?

Decisions:
- Do both task 3.4 & 3.5 together
- First meeting on Wednesday 13 September 2021 at 15:00
- Technology to use for collaborative work: Github
- Sudha volunteered to contact Sophie Servan regarding the ExPANDs' Github repo

Next steps:
- Clarify the questions we have in WP3 monthly meeting.
- Discuss about Umbrella ID.
- Discuss on what information we need.
- Discuss the next steps following the meeting with PANOSC