## ExPaNDS meeting for task 3.4 & 3.5
Wednesday 27 October 2021
## Agenda:
For task 3.4
- Create a set of questions for gap and issue assessment. 
- Discuss on how the assessment should be organized.
- Decide a date for it.

For task 3.5
- Discuss about idea and date for the workshop about Umbrella ID and Keycloak.

## Discussions & Decisions
### For task 3.4
We disscused about the [questionaire](https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/blob/master/WP3/WP3.4-3.5/kpi-assessment/questions.md) that Rolf had drafted for gap and issue assessment. We also disscused about activities related to the gap and issue assessment such as:

- How are we going to do the assessment?
- How do we distribute the written survey?
- How do we collect the answers?
- Should we have a meeting after the survey so that each facility can go through their answers in detail?

**Decisions:**
- The questionaire for online survey will be created using Google form.
- Sudha volunteered to create the questionaire, send it out and collect the answers.
- The survey will be send out to each facility on Friday 5th November 2021.
- Facilities should hand in their answers at latest Friday 19th November 2021.
- Rolf volunteered to send our Doodle for the online meeting.
- We aim to have online meeting for gap and issue assessement on 29th or the week after. 
- For online meeting each facility has 10 minutes to go through and disscus their answers in the survey.
## For task 3.5
We discussed about how and who from PANOSC to contact reagarding the workshop about Umbrella ID. We also wanted to collecting a list of facilities that are interested to have Umbrella ID. To get the most our of the workshop the facilities should have running Keycloak on production so they can concentrate in Umbrella ID intergration. The goal is to be prepared before the workshop.

**Decisions:**
- Marta volunteered to contact PANOSC regarding the workshop.
- Collecting a list of facilities which are interested in having Umbrella ID. We should have the list by Christmas.
- Ask facilities what sort of assisstant needed for setting up Keycloak.
- Support facilities with Keycloak set up.
- We aim to have the workshop in February/Mars.
## Miscellaneous
- Rolf mentioned that HZDR should also be involved in the tasks. Carlo volunteered to contact them.

## Deadlines
- Friday 5th November 2021: Sending out online survery.
- Friday 19th November 2021: Last day for facilities to hand in their answers for online survey

**Next meeting on 24th November 2021 at 15:00.**


