ExPaNDS meeting for task 3.4 & 3.5
Wednesday 24 November 2021

Agenda
For Task 3.4
 Report on KPI Assessment Survey Results
 Discussion on the KPI Assessment meeting
For Task 3.5
 Discussion on KeyCloak-UmbrellaID Workshop
AOB

Discussion & Decisions

For Task 3.4
Rolf presented the results of the KPI Assessment survey. It is probably most interesting to look at the planned activities (instead of achieved ones). We also need to look into priorities and help requested, so as to derive a direction for activities to help. We can take either a statistical or a freeform approach. In a statistical approach we will count the number of facilities asking for a particular help or highligting a particular issue. In the freeform approach we will try to understand the reasons for road blocks and needs of each facility. Not all facilities have responded to the online meeting date planning. 
Decision:
    A preference for the freeform approach was indicated.
    The format of the online meeting will be
        - A 10 minute introduction
        - A 10 minute presentation of survey answers by each facility
        - A discussion at the end
    The goal of the meeting will be to identify next steps and direction to take.
    The attempt will be to organize the meeting on a best possible date during weeks 48 or 49, since most people will go on vacation after that. However, a representative for each facility needs to be found.

For Task 3.5
We need a list of facilities who are interested to particpate in the workshop. The last day to indicate interest is the 29th of November 2021. The workshop is planned for February or early March 2022. Facilities need to have a production ready instance of KeyCloak deployed by end of January 2022, in order to derive the maximum benefit from the workshop. It is not mandatory, however. The requirements that are good to to meet are: a hostname that is meant for the production instance and a valid security certificate. Rolf indicated that he could support some facilities with the KeyCloak installation as time permits.

Next Steps

For Task 3.4

- We need a representative from Diamond. Perhaps Steve will. Rolf volunteered to follow up.
- We need response from ISIS and UKRI. Alejandra will try to send them in by early next week (week 48)
- The meeting date to be finalized after Alejandra gets back.

For Task 3.4

- Collect interest from each facility by November 29. Marta is collecting them.
- Each facility interested in participating and needing assitance with KeyCloak installation is to get in touch with Rolf.

Upcoming events
- Session for gap and issue assessment. Date to be decided, possibly during week 48/49.
- Workshop for Umbrella ID integration with Keycloak.

Next meeting on 12 January 2022 at 15:00.
- Discussion of Workshop in detail.
